---
layout: post
title: UDLD
category: Layer 2
tag: knowledge
---
UDLD, or Unidirectional Link Detection, is a Cisco proprietary, Layer 2 protocol that helps detects if either the transmit or the receive fails on a link. It’s purpose is similar to LoopGuard, but it is completely independent of Spanning Tree. The operation of UDLD is fairly simple. A switch sends UDLD Hellos and if it receives echoes of those Hellos back it knows the link is an active two way link. As soon as it quits receiving the UDLD Hellos, it knows there must be a unidirectional link failure. UDLD operates at the physical port level, compared to say STP LoopGuard which works at the logical port level (EtherChannel). Also UDLD functions at linkup, while LoopGuard does not. It is recommended to enable both UDLD and LoopGuard.

UDLD is mainly used on fiber connections, but it can also be useful on Ethernet connections that have dumb devices in the middle such as media converters.

The default advertisement timer is 15 seconds and the hold time is 5 seconds. Upon detecting the loss of a UDLD neighbor, UDLD will send seven additional advertisements (one per second). If no reply is received, the link’s bidirectional status transitions to unknown.

To set up UDLD globally, use `SW1(config)# udld enable` and use the `SW1(config-if)# udld port enable` command to enable per interface. Use `SW1(config)# udld enable aggressive` if you want the ports to be shut down upon UDLD neighbor failure.

In order to reset an interface that was shut down by UDLD, use `SW1# udld reset`, or the typical shut / no shut commands.

You could also enable auto recovery of the interface if desired. It would look like this:
```
SW1(config)# errdisable recovery cause idled
SW1(config)# errdisable recovery interval 30
```


