---
name: 1.3.3
title: 1.3.3 - LACP
short-title: LACP
exam: both
category: Layer 2
collection: Layer2
layout: page
---
LACP is the IEEE standard for establishing a single logical channel out of several physical ports. It is popular as it can be used in mixed-vendor switch environments. LACP ensures that when an EtherChannel is created, all physical members all have the same speed, duplex, link-type, and VLAN information. LACP is a control protocol for LAG. The official name is IEEE 802.3ad Link Aggregation (LAG).

LACP supports up to 16 Ethernet ports of the same type. Up to eight ports can be active, and up to eight ports can be in standby mode.

LACP assigns system priority, port priority, and and an administrative key.

*System priority* and the MAC address form the System ID. Between two LACP neighbors, the switch with the lowest System ID will be the decision maker using the LACP Port Priority

*Port priority* and the port number form the port identifier. The switch uses the port identifier to decide which ports to put in standby mode when a hardware limitation prevents all ports from aggregating. Port priority is also used when more than 8 physical ports are put into a channel group. Port priority will decide which 8 ports will be the active ports in the etherchannel.

*Administrative key* defines the capabilities of a port to aggregate with other ports, based on the port's physical characteristics.

Sample Configuration:
```
SW1# interface range GigabitEthernet0/1-2
SW1# channel-group 1 mode active
SW1# exit
SW1# interface port-channel 1
SW1# switchport trunk encapsulation dot1q
SW1# switchport mode trunk
```

```
SW2# interface range GigabitEthernet0/1-2
SW2# channel-group 1 mode active
SW2# exit
SW2# interface port-channel 1
SW2# switchport trunk encapsulation dot1q
SW2# switchport mode trunk
```

You can also start with the `interface port-channel 1` command and then define the channel group. For Layer 3 ether channel, you would want to define the port-channel first and then issue the `no switchport` interface command.

The `interface port-channel 1` is the logical interface. The channel-group command binds the logical interface to a physical port. The port-channel interface (numbered 1 - 48) correspond to the one specified with the channel-group interface configuration command.

A successful Layer 2 EtherChannel will show SU with the command `show etherchannel summary`. An unsuccessful layer 2 will show SD.