---
name: 1.4.4.1
title: 1.4.4.1 - MST Root Bridge Election
short-title: MST Root Bridge Election
exam: both
category: Layer 2
collection: Layer2
layout: page
---
Root bridge election in MST occurs in a similar manner to what we saw in PVST+ Root Election. The big difference is that there is a separate root per Multiple Spanning Tree Instance (MSTI). For example, we could have MSTI 1 for VLANs 10, 20, and 30, and MSTI 2 for VLANs 40, 50, and 60. To make SW1 the Root for MSTI 1 and SW2 the Root Bridge for MSTI 2, we would use the following commands.
**SW1**
```
`SW1(config)# spanning-tree mst configuration
SW1(config-mst)# instance 1 vlan 10,20,30
SW1(config-mst)# name Region1
SW1(config-mst)# revision 1
SW1(config-mst)# exit
SW1(config)# spanning-tree mst 1 priority 0
```
`**SW2**
```
`SW12config)# spanning-tree mst configuration
SW2(config-mst)# instance 2 vlan 40,50,60
SW2(config-mst)# name Region1
SW2(config-mst)# revision 1
SW2(config-mst)# exit
SW2(config)# spanning-tree mst 2 priority 0
```
`
As always, don’t forget to change the spanning tree mode:
```
`SW1(config)# spanning-tree mode mst
```
````
`SW2(config)# spanning-tree mode mst
```
`If this was our only configuration, the the Root Bridge for the IST of Region1 would happen organically - the switch with the lowest Bridge ID would become the IST Root Bridge.

In the example above, both switches were in the same MST Region, and we can assume there was only one region. All of this goes out the door if there are multiple MST regions.

When multiple regions exist, each Region has its own IST but there is a common CIST spanning across all regions. A single CIST Root is chosen across all regions and a CIST Regional Root is elected in every region. The CIST Regional Root must be a **boundary switch** and is elected based on the shortest external path cost to reach the CIST Root. The CIST Regional Root becomes the root of the IST for the given region as well, overriding the election process that might have been made if this was a single region in isolation.