---
name: 1.6.5
title: 1.6.5 - SPAN
short-title: SPAN
exam: both
category: Layer 2
collection: Layer2
layout: page
---
SPAN stands for Switch Port Analyzer. It is a way to direct all traffic from a source port or source VLAN to a single port. Some uses include IDS/IPS, VoIP Call recording, or troubleshooting / analysis.

If the destination port is on the local switch, we say it is in SPAN operation mode. The destination port could also be mapped to a port on a remote switch, in which case we call it Remote SPAN or RSPAN. In RSPAN, a specific VLAN must be configured across the entire switching path from the source port or VLAN to the RSPAN destination port. So the source is still at least one port or at least one VLAN,  but the destination is always the RSPAN VLAN. At the switch where the RSPAN destination port exists, the RSPAN VLAN is delivered to the RSPAN port.

Encapsulated Remote SPAN (ERSPAN) is a variant of RSPAN in which we are encapsulating the Remote SPAN information. ERSPAN creates a GRE tunnel for all captured traffic and allows it to be extended across Layer 3 domains. This became an option with IOS-XE.

Regardless of the type of SPAN we are running, the source port can be any type of port including EtherChannel, trunk port, routed port, etc. When using a VLAN as the source, all active ports in that VLAN are monitored, and the monitored ports are updated dynamically as membership to that VLAN changes. A port configured as a SPAN destination cannot be part of a SPAN source VLAN.

It is important to understand that when you configure a SPAN destination port, the existing configuration is removed but is restored if you later remove the SPAN configuration. The destination port does not support any security, nor does it support any Layer 2 protocols such as CDP, VTP, etc. If the destination port was part of an EtherChannel, it will be removed from the EtherChannel once the SPAN configuration is applied.

There are a number of restrictions with SPAN including:
- the source can be one or more ports or a VLAN, but not both
- up to 64 destination ports can be configured on a switch
- you must be careful not to overload the destination port, especially if a VLAN is being monitored.
- within a single SPAN session, you cannot deliver traffic to a destination port when it is sourced by a mix of SPAN, RSPAN, or ERSPAN source ports or VLANs. This usually comes into play when you want to mirror source traffic to both a local port on a switch (SPAN mode) and a remote port on another switch (RSPAN mode).
- only one SPAN/RSPAN/ERSPAN session can send traffic to a single destination port
- if you use a trunk port as a SPAN or RSPAN source, then by default all VLANs on the trunk are monitored by default
- traffic that is routed from another VLAN to a source VLAN cannot be monitored with SPAN

Finally, SPAN, RSPAN, and ERSPAN support three types of traffic: transmitted, received, and both (default). If you set a SPAN to monitor just receive or just transmit, some conditions apply:
- for Receive (RX) the goal is to deliver all traffic that is received by the SPAN source. As a result, each frame that is received by the source port or VLAN is copied to the destination port or VLAN *before* any modifications are made to the frame (such as ACL filtering, QoS, etc)
- for Transmit (TX), all relevant filtering or modification to the frame is done before the switch forwards the traffic to the SPAN or RSPAN destination.
- SPAN usually ignores certain Layer 2 frames like CDP, BPDUs, etc. However, SPAN can be configured to forward that traffic to the destination port/VLAN with the `encapsulation replicate` command

Basic SPAN Configuration:

```
SW1(config)# monitor session 1 source interface fa0/12
SW1(config)# monitor session 1 destination interface fa0/24
```

Here is an example where we will only monitor respective traffic from fa0/18 and only monitor sent traffic from interface fa0/19. Additionally we will filter (remove) VLANs 1 through 3. Finally, we will preserve the encapsulation from the sources:

```
SW1(config)# monitor session 1 source interface fa0/18 rx
SW1(config)# monitor session 1 source interface fa0/19 tx
SW1(config)# monitor session 1 filter vlan 1-3
SW1(config)# monitor session 1 destination interface fa0/24 encapsulation replicate
```
