---
name: 3.1.14
title: 3.1.14 - Policy Routing
short-title: Policy Routing
category: 3.1 IPv4
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
---
Policy-based routing can be used to change the next-hop IP address for traffic matching certain criteria. This can be useful to overrule the routing table for certain types of traffic. For example you may want to force all traffic from a certain host to use an alternate link. The key to making this work is an access-list and a route map.

For example, let’s assume that we want all ICMP traffic from host 192.168.1.100 to traverse a link whose next hop is 192.168.13.3 if the destination IP address is 4.4.4.4. We can use an extended access list to classify the traffic.
```
`R1(config)# ip access-list extended ICMP-H1
R1(config-ext-nacl)# permit imp host 192.168.1.100 host 4.4.4.4
R1(config)# end
```
\`Now the next step would be to use a route map to set the next hop IP when we have a match.
```
`R1(config)# route-map PBR-H1 permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address ICMP-H1
R1(config-route-map)# set ip next-hop 192.168.13.3
R1(config)# end
```
\`Now, we must make sure we activate it on the ingress interface.
```
`R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip policy route-map PBR-H1
R1(config)# end
```
\`
`debug ip policy` will turn debugging on for policy routing.

This configuration is for traffic passing *through* the router. To apply policy based routing for traffic that is 8originated8 by the router, see the next post “Local Policy Routing”.

One thing to remember is that there can only be one ip policy on the interface, so if you need to perform multiple actions, you may have to use a route map with multiple sections like this.
```
`R1(config)# route-map RM-R4-R6 permit 20
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address FROM-R4
R1(config-route-map)# set ip next-hop 155.146.13.1
R1(config-route-map)# route-map RM-R4-R6 permit 20
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address FROM-R6
R1(config-route-map)# set ip next-hop 155.1.0.5
R1(config-route-map)# exit
```
\`
Some important show commands are listed below:
```
`R1#sh ip policy
Interface      Route map
Gi0/1.146      RM-R4-R6
R1\#
```
\`R1#show route-map
route-map RM-R4-R6, permit, sequence 10
  Match clauses:
ip address (access-lists): FROM\_R4
  Set clauses:
ip next-hop 155.1.13.3
  Policy routing matches: 18 packets, 1116 bytes
route-map RM-R4-R6, permit, sequence 20
  Match clauses:
ip address (access-lists): FROM\_R6
  Set clauses:
ip next-hop 155.1.0.5
  Policy routing matches: 9 packets, 564 bytes
\`\`\`
\`

#### Policy Routing Default Next Hop
When using policy routing and the `ip next-hop` set option in a route map, you can optionally use the *default* keyword. The difference is simple.

When you do not use the default keyword, routing utilizes PBR first and consults the routing table if there is no match or non reachability. If you use the default keyword, then routing uses the routing table first and if no route can be found then attempts to use the Policy Based Routing process.

Both the `set ip next-hop` and the `set ip default next-hop` commands require that the next-hop be found on a directly-connected subnet, otherwise PBR will fail and normal forwarding will be used. However, we can use `set ip next-hop recursive` to use an address off a subnet that *is not* directly connected.

#### Policy Routing Verify Availability
Within the route-map statement, there is an option when using `ip next-hop` of `verify-availability`. This article will describe what it does and the two flavors of utilization.

If used solely by itself, `verify-availabilty` uses CDP to establish that the next-hop IP address is reachable. If the IP address used is in the CDP neighbor table, then the next-hop is deemed accessible, otherwise it is not.

`verify-availability` can be extended to also use a tracking object. Here is an example of that configuration.
```
`R2(config)#route-map PBR permit 10
R2(config-route-map)#match ip address HTTP-SERVER
R2(config-route-map)#set ip next-hop verify-availability 192.168.24.4 1 track 1
```
\`
If using either of these methods to implement `verify-reachability`, if the next-hop IP address is not reachable then routing is not performed based on the policy but is routed according to the the routing table.

We can use a combination of commands to route a different way if our `verify-reachability` fails.
```
`R1(config)# route-map RM1
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address AL1
R1(config-route-map)# set ip next-hop 155.1.0.5
R1(config-route-map)# set ip next-hop verify reachability
R1(config-route-map)# set ip default next-hop 155.1.13.3
```
\`In this example, if we match to AL1 AND 155.1.0.5 is reachable (CDP check), then we route to 155.1.0.5. However if we match AL1 and 155.1.0.5 is not in the CDP neighbor table, then we route to 155.1.13.3.

#### Policy Routing Order of Operation
A route-map can have multiple set operations on a single match clause. The list below shows the order of operations, regardless of the sequence number we use or the order we input them.
- `set ip next-hop verify-availability track` - first when used with object tracking
- `set ip next-hop` - alone or with the CDP (but without default) version of `verify-availability`
- `set ip next-hop recursive`
- set interface
- Route table
- set ip default next-hop
- set default interface