---
name: 3.2.1
title: 3.2.1 - IPv6 Link-Local Addressing
short-title: IPv6 Link-local Addresses
category: 3.2 IPv6
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
---
Link local IPv6 addresses are only significant on the local link. For that reason, they are not necessarily guaranteed to be globally unique, as is the case with a global unicast address. Link local addresses will start with FE80::/10 or in binary 111 1110 10xx xxxx. In practical use, it will really always be FE80::/64.  This range will include everything from FE80:: through FEBF::, but once again in practical use you will almost always see FE80::. They are similar to the 169.254.0.0/16 in IPv4.


Cisco implements link-local via EUI-64. If there are no Ethernet interfaces and the device needs an EUI-64 address, Cisco routers have a MAC pool for use. In Cisco IOS, an interface is automatically assigned a link-local address as soon as  IPv6 is explicitly enabled on the interface. Since the configuration is automatic, link-local addresses are a great addition to IP since they allow communication to occur via IPv6 before global unicast addresses have even been assigned.

Though link-local address is automatic, you still have the ability to manually assign a link-local address if desired.
```
`R1(config-if)# ipv6 address fe80::1 ?
  link-local  Use link-local address

R1(config-if)# ipv6 address fe80::1 link-local
R1(config-if)# do show ipv6 interface brief 
FastEthernet0/0            [up/up]()
FE80::C001:37FF:FE6C:0
2001:DB8:0:12::1
FastEthernet0/1            [up/up]()
FE80::1
```
`If you were to then issue the command **no ipv6 fe80::1 link-local**, the router would once again assign a EUI-64 generated link-local address.

Packets sourced from or to a link-local address are not forwarded out of the layer 2 domain by routers. That makes these links useful for limiting the scope of traffic which should not be routed (for example, routing protocol advertisements).

