---
name: 3.2.9
title: 3.2.9 - IPv6 NAT-PT
short-title: NAT-PT
category: 3.2 IPv6
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
---
NAT-PT stands for Network Address Translation - Protocol Translation. NAT64 is the replacement for NAT-PT as defined in RFC 6144. Cisco recommends not using NAT-PT, or only using it when no other solution exists.

NAT-PT is similar to the NAT mechanism used in IPv4 for translating RFC 1918 addresses to public IPv4 addresses. NAT-PT is used to translate IPv4 addresses to IPv6 addresses and also IPv6 addresses to IPv4 addresses. A router sits between the IPv4 and IPv6 networks and acts as an Application Level Gateway, translating requests between IPv4 and IPv6.

The IPv6 stack classifies packets for NAT-PT via a special IPv6 NAT prefix. This prefix represents the whole IPv4 address space (2^32) embedded within an IPv6 super-space. This prefix always has a length of 96 bits (128 - 32 = 96). Every IPv6 packet sent to this prefix is inspected by the NAT-PT engine.

The translations can be done statically, where every IPv6 address is mapped to an IPv4 address. It can also be done dynamically, where IPv4 addresses are allocated from an address pool similar to what is done with dynamic IPv4 NAT. When the NAT-PT router receives a packet with a destination IPv6 address using the assigned /96 NAT prefix, the NAT-PT router translates it from a pool of IPv4 addresses.

There is even a way to allow any IPv6 host to access any IPv4 host by correlating the last 32 bits of the IPv6 destination address to the corresponding IPv4 address.

One of the reasons NAT-PT is considered so bad is that any NAT with ALG is considered really bad!

Here is the [INE link][1]. If there is lab work to do, then I may consider writing and learning more on this topic.

NAT-PT in the real world is really dead. There are a few reasons why:
- NAT46 can never work well, yet NAT-PT tried to implement
- NAT-PT has DNS ALG in the forwarding path
- NAT-PT has to be in the forwarding path


[1]:	http://blog.ine.com/2008/04/18/understanding-ipv6-nat-pt/