---
name: 3.2.10
title: 3.2.10 - IPv6 MP-BGP
short-title: IPv6 MP-BGP
category: 3.2 IPv6
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
---
Multiprotocol BGP is the supported Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP) for IPv6. Multiprotocol BGP extensions for IPv6 supports many of the same features and functionality as IPv4 BGP. IPv6 enhancements to multiprotocol BGP include support for an IPv6 address family and Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) and next hop (the next device in the path to the destination) attributes that use IPv6 addresses.

BGP uses a router ID to identify BGP-speaking peers. The BGP router ID is 32-bit value that is often represented by an IPv4 address. By default, the router ID is set to the IPv4 address of a loopback interface on the device. If no loopback interface is configured on the device, then the software chooses the highest IPv4 address configured to a physical interface on the device to represent the BGP router ID.

When configuring BGP on a device that is enabled only for IPv6 (that is, the device does not have an IPv4 address), you must manually configure the BGP router ID for the device. The BGP router ID, which is represented as a 32-bit value using an IPv4 address syntax, must be unique to the BGP peers of the device.
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 65591
R1(config-router)# no bgp default ipv4-unicast
R1(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
```
`Routing information for the IPv4 unicast address family is advertised by default for each BGP routing session configured with the neighbor remote-as command unless you configure the no bgp default ipv4-unicast command before configuring the neighbor remote-as command. SO you would configure the no statement if you did not have any IPv4 peers.

We will now show an example configuration between two peers.
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 65591
R1(config-router)# neighbor 2001:DB8:0:CC00::2 remote-as 65591
R1(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
R1(config-router)# address family ipv6
R1(config-router-af)# neighbor 2001:DB8:0:CC00::2 activate
R1(config-router-af)# network 2001:DB8::/24
```
`With MP-BGP, we must explicitly enable the neighbor to exchange prefixes for the IPv6 address family with the local device. Also note that the **network** declaration to inject a prefix into the BGP database for the address family is specified under address family configuration mode not bgp router mode as in the old IPv4 configuration method.
