---
name: 3.3.4
title: Route Filtering
collection: general-routing
layout: page
---
Route filtering is a fundamental building block for creating routing policies - a set of rules that govern how packets are forwarded in a network. Route filters work by regulating the routes that are entered into, or advertised out of, the route table.

Route filters work differently with link-state protocols vs distance vector protocols. With distance-vector routing protocols, routers advertise routes based on what is in the route table. As a result, route filters *will* influence which routes the router advertises to its neighbors.

But with link-state protocols, routes are determined based on the content of their link-state database, not the routing table. Thus, route filters have no effect on link-state advertisements or the link-state database. As a result, a route filter can influence the route table of the router on which the filter is configured but has *no*effect on the route entries of neighboring routers. Because of this, route filters are used mostly at redistribution points into link-state domains (such as an OSPF ASBR) where they can regulate which routes enter or leave the domain. Within the link-state domain, route filters have limited utility.

Route-filtering is accomplished by one of two-methods:
- Using the **distribute-list** command to filter specific routes
- Using the **distance** command to manipulate the administrative distance of routes

When using access lists and distribute lists, permit allows routes through and deny rejects routes. For IPv6, prefix lists are used instead of access-lists.

Remember, it is always more efficient to filter the routes closer to the source to prevent unneeded updates to traverse links.

The **distance** command can optionally specify a particular router and routes on which to alter the administrative distance.
```
`router rip
  network 192.168.6.0
  distance 130
  distance 120 192.168.6.1 0.0.0.0 2
!
access-list 2 permit 192.168.1.0
access-list 2 permit 192.168.2.0
```
`The above example will set the administrative distance of all RIP learned routes to 130, except for the 192.168.1.0 and 192.168.2.0 routes learned from router 192.168.6.1. The access list is optional. For example, the below configuration sets all routes learned from 192.168.2.1 to have a distance of 100, making them more preferable than other RIP learned routes.
```
`router rip
  network 192.168.6.0
  network 192.168.2.0
  network 192.168.1.0
  distance 100 192.168.2.1 0.0.0.0
```
`