---
name: 3.3.1
title: 3.3.1 - Distance Vector vs Link State vs Path Vector
short-title: Routing Protocol Comparison
category: 3.3 Common Dynamic Routing Features
exam: both
collection: general-routing
layout: page
---
Distance vector routing is so named because it involves two factors: the distance, or metric, of a destination, and the vector, or direction to take to get there. Routing information is only exchanged between directly connected neighbors. This means a router knows from which neighbor a route was learned, but it does not know where that neighbor learned the route; a router can't see beyond its own neighbors. This aspect of distance vector routing is sometimes referred to as "routing by rumor." Measures like split horizon and poison reverse are employed to avoid routing loops.

Link-state routing, in contrast, requires that all routers know about the paths reachable by all other routers in the network. Link-state information is flooded throughout the link-state domain (an area in OSPF or IS-IS) to ensure all routers posses a synchronized copy of the area's link-state database. From this common database, each router constructs its own relative shortest-path tree, with itself as the root, for all known routes.

There is a great pictorial [here][1]

A path vector protocol (BGP is the only one)  is in ways an extension of distance-vector routing. With distance-vector, routers shared the distance metric among each other. With path-vector, routers share the entire path for each destination. In other words, don’t just send the distance, but send the path from which I can gather distance. Sending the entire path aids in loop detection, for if I see my AS in the path of an advertisement I know that a loop will occur if I install that route in my routing table, so I simply ignore the advertisement. In addition, a path-vector protocol allows policies to be implemented by being able to say go across this particular path. Since the distance-vector protocol had no path knowledge, no policy routing was really available.

[1]:	http://packetlife.net/blog/2008/oct/2/distance-vector-versus-link-state/